Create Release Post 3.40 (#5348)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2022/release-3.40.md

## Local navigation for the top 8 languages is now faster and more accurate

We [previously improved navigation speed for Java code](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.39/#Local-navigation-for-Java-code-is-now-faster-and-more-accurate) in Sourcegraph 3.39 by using [tree-sitter](https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/). We’re now using tree-sitter for Go, C#, Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, C/C++, and Ruby as well. Hover tooltips for local variables in those languages will now populate far faster and the results will be more precise, so you can navigate through files quickly and with more confidence in the tooltip information.

## Batch Changes on Bitbucket Cloud

Batch Changes is now available on Bitbucket Cloud. Batch Changes was previously only available on self-hosted deployments of Bitbucket; now, you can programmatically define changes across all of your Bitbucket repositories.

## Share links to Code Insights charts

> [img placeholder]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![code_insights_link_sharing](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.40/code_insights_link_sharing.png)
```

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.40 release'
publishDate: 2022-05-20T10:00-07:00

> description: 'Sourcegraph 3.40 introduces dependencies search for Python, faster local navigation for several languages, Batch Changes for Bitbucket Cloud, and direct sharing for individual code insights.'

Author: ```suggestion
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.40 introduces dependencies search for Python, faster local navigation for several languages, Batch Changes for Bitbucket Cloud, and direct sharing for Code Insights visualizations.'
```

changelogItems:
  - description: 'Code Insights will now automatically generate queries with a default value of `fork:no` and `archived:no` if these fields are not specified by the user. This removes the need to manually add these fields to have consistent behavior from historical to non-historical results.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/30204
    category: Code Insights
  - description: 'Search-based Code Intelligence now recognizes local variables in Python, Java, JavaScript, TypeScript, C/C++, C#, Go, and Ruby. This provides a better code navigation experience out-of-the-box.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/33689
    category: Code Intelligence
  - description: '`type:commit` and `type:diff` searches containing `and`, `or`, and `not` queries have been optimized, and now return results significantly faster.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/34595
    category: Search
  - description: '`-language` is a valid filter, but the web app previously displayed it as invalid. This bug has been fixed to reflect it as valid.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/34949
    category: Search

>   - description: '`search.largeFiles` now supports recursive globs. For example, it is now possible to specify a pattern like `**/*.lock` to match a lock file anywhere in a repository.'

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: '`search.largeFiles` now supports recursive globs. For example, it is now possible to configure `search.largeFiles` with a pattern like `**/*.lock` to index all lock files in a repository and make them searchable, even when they are larger than 1 MB each.'
```

    url: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/explanations/search_details
    category: Search

>   - description: 'The `setRepositoryPermissionsUnrestricted` mutation was added, which allows you to explicitly mark a repo as available to all Sourcegraph users.'

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: 'The `setRepositoryPermissionsUnrestricted` mutation was added, which allows you to explicitly mark a repo as available to all Sourcegraph users on your instance. This allows you to open up repos to all new users on your instance without needing to add new user individually when they join.'
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/35378
    category: Admin
---

Sourcegraph 3.40 is now available! Here are some highlights from this release:

## Search your Python dependencies

Sourcegraph [dependencies search](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/how-to/dependencies_search) now supports Python packages. You can now search through the Python dependencies of your repositories to easily identify the root cause of an error coming from the source code of a dependency or determine if any of your repository dependencies has a security vulnerability. We currently have support for poetry.lock and pipfile.lock files. Check out [this example search on Sourcegraph Cloud](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=context:global+repo:deps%28%5Egithub%5C.com/textualize/rich%24%29+&patternType=literal).

## Local navigation for the top 8 languages is now faster and more accurate

> We [previously improved navigation speed for Java code](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.39/#Local-navigation-for-Java-code-is-now-faster-and-more-accurate) in Sourcegraph 3.39. We’ve now made the same improvements for Go, C#, Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, C/C++, and Ruby, so you can navigate your code more quickly and precisely.

Author: ```suggestion
We [previously improved navigation speed for Java code](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.39/#Local-navigation-for-Java-code-is-now-faster-and-more-accurate) in Sourcegraph 3.39 by using [tree-sitter](https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/). We’re now using tree-sitter for Go, C#, Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, C/C++, and Ruby as well. Hover tooltips for local variables in those languages will now populate far faster and the results will be more precise, so you can navigate through files quickly and with more confidence in the tooltip information.
```

> ## Batch Changes on Bitbucket Cloud

Reviewer 2: @malomarrec @iskyOS - is this experimental or GA? Are there any images or creative to include?

Author: Added experimental status. Nothing visual in-app will change for this; we could include BitBucket logos but I'd recommend against creative for this, since it won't offer any new view of functionality

Batch Changes is now available on Bitbucket Cloud. Batch Changes was previously only available on self-hosted deployments of Bitbucket; now, you can programmatically define changes across all of your Bitbucket repositories.

> ## Share links to code insights

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Share links to Code Insights charts
```

@Joelkw @iskyOS - the capitalization is tricky here - does this work?

[img placeholder]

> You can now link to individual code insight charts directly via the context menu on each insight. When you click to share an insight, the product indicates what other groups – global or individual Sourcegraph organizations – can see the insight. To share an insight chart, it will need to be on at least one global or org-wide dashboard, and the share link will enforce the permissions of the dashboard(s) with the insight. You can read more about [Code Insights viewing & sharing in our docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/viewing_code_insights).

Reviewer 2: @iskyOS @Joelkw - can you add a sentence on why this is valuable/why someone would want to share an insight chart and who they would share it with?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now link to individual code insight charts directly via the context menu on each insight, to share individual insights with teammates rather than just whole dashboard pages. When you click to share an insight, it indicates which other groups of users can see the insight. To share an insight chart, it will need to be on at least one global or org-wide dashboard, and the share link will enforce the permissions of the dashboard(s) with the insight. You can read more about [Code Insights link sharing](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/viewing_code_insights#sharing-links-to-individual-insights).
```

Reviewer: @abschu does that cover what you're asking for? The TL;DR is that this is literally "share insights" so there are a long tail of uses – share an insight with a manager, with a teammate, to debug the insight, to link people to the individual insights, etc. Feel free to wordsmith it differently if you prefer!

Author: ```suggestion
You can now link to individual Code Insights charts directly via the context menu on each insight, to share individual insights with teammates rather than entire dashboards. When you click to share an insight, it will indicate which other groups of users can see the insight. To share an insight chart, it will need to be on at least one global or org-wide dashboard, and the share link will enforce the permissions of the dashboard(s) with the insight. You can read more about [Code Insights link sharing](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/viewing_code_insights#sharing-links-to-individual-insights).
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/30204
    category: Code Insights
  - description: '`type:commit` and `type:diff` searches containing `and`, `or`, and `not` queries have been optimized, and now return results significantly faster.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/34595
    category: Search
  - description: '`-language` is a valid filter, but the web app previously displayed it as invalid. This bug has been fixed to reflect it as valid.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/34949
    category: Search
  - description: '`search.largeFiles` now supports recursive globs. For example, it is now possible to configure `search.largeFiles` with a pattern like `**/*.lock` to index all lock files in a repository and make them searchable, even when they are larger than 1 MB each.'
    url: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/explanations/search_details
    category: Search

>   - description: 'The `setRepositoryPermissionsUnrestricted` mutation was added, which allows you to explicitly mark a repo as available to all Sourcegraph users on your instance. This allows you to open up repos to all new users on your instance without needing to add new users individually when they join.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - description: 'The `setRepositoryPermissionsUnrestricted` mutation was added, which allows you to explicitly mark a repo as available to all Sourcegraph users on your instance. This allows you to open up repositories to all new users on your instance without needing to add new users individually when they join.'
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/35378
    category: Admin
---

<div className="alert alert-primary" role="alert" style={{maxWidth:'650px', alignItems:'center', margin: 'auto auto 20px auto'}}>

>       We have identified an issue impacting Sourcegraph users who connect to certain versions GitLab, causing some repos and search results to not appear. We are working to resolve this in an upcoming patch. See the <a href="https://sourcegraphstatus.com/">status page</a> for more information on the incident.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      We have identified an issue impacting Sourcegraph users who connect to certain versions of GitLab, causing some repositories and search results to not appear. We are working to resolve this in an upcoming patch. See the <a href="https://sourcegraphstatus.com/">status page</a> for more information on the incident.
```

Author: ```suggestion
      GitLab 15.0 no longer supports OAuth tokens that don’t expire, which can cause authentication between Sourcegraph and GitLab to fail. We are working to fix compatibility with GitLab 15.0 (and support expiring OAuth tokens) in an upcoming patch.
```

  <br/>

>   We recommend GitLab users skip 3.40 and wait for the patch to be released before upgrading.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  We recommend GitLab users wait for the patch to be released before upgrading to 3.40.
```

Author: ```suggestion
  We recommend GitLab users wait to upgrade to Sourcegraph 3.40 until after the patch is released.
```
